# Pre-requisites
- The server port must use port `5000`
    - Add `server.port=5000` to your `application.properties` file.
    - Once your application is ready for deployment, run the following command in your project terminal:
        - `mvn clean package`


# AWS Console
1. Create an account with <a href="https://portal.aws.amazon.com/billing/signup#/start/email" target="_blank">AWS</a>.
2. Next, navigate to <a href="https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/iamv2/home#/home" target="_blank">Identity and Access Management (IAM)</a>
    1. On the left side navbar, under `Access Management`, click on `Roles`, then click `Create role` in the top right corner.
        > This role is being created to manage our Elastic Beanstalk policies.
        1. Trusted entity type: **AWS service**
        2. Use Case: **EC2**
        3. Click Next!
        1. Check the following Permissions policies:
            > Hint: You can type `ElasticBeanstalk` in the search bar and it should be the first three!
            1. `AWSElasticBeanstalkWebTier`
            2. `AWSElasticBeanstalkWorkerTier`
            3. `AWSElasticBeanstalkMulticontainerDocker`
        2. Click Next!
        1. Role name: `ebs-role-manager`
        2. Ensure the policies you selected are attached.
        3. Click Create role!
3. Lastly, navigate to <a href="https://us-east-2.console.aws.amazon.com/ec2/home?region=us-east-2" target="_blank">EC2</a>
    1. On the left side navbar, under `Network & Security`, click `Key Pairs`, and `Create key pair` in the top right corner.
        1. Name: `codeup-aws`
        2. Key pair type: `RSA`
        3. Private key file format: `.pem`
        > Create key pair!
    2. A file named `codeup-aws.pem` should be added to your downloads folder.
        1. Open up a new terminal, and move your `codeup-aws.pem` file to your `.ssh` directory.
            - `mv downloads/codeup-aws.pem .ssh/`
    > This file will be important if you want to SSH into your EC2 instance!

<br>

## Creating a Billing Budget
To monitor our cost for our application, we can set up a budget template that will notify us via email of when our usage has reached our budget limit.

1. Using the search bar in the navbar, search for "Billing" and click the first result named "Billing".
2. On the left sidenav, navigate to "Budgets".
3. Click the button labeled "Create a budget".
4. For Budget setup, choose `Use a template (simplified)`
5. For Templates, choose `Monthly cost budget`
6. Fill out the rest of the information, and click "Create budget" to finish.

<br>
<br>
<br>

## [Next Step >>](2.dns.md) 