# Elastic Beanstalk
Elastic Beanstalk is known as a Platform as a Service (PaaS), which we will be using to manage the deployment of our application. After we configure our environment and application, Elastic Beanstalk will manage the inbound and outbound HTTP traffic, provide error logs and reports, as well as manage different versions of our application.

1. Navigate to <a href="https://us-east-2.console.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/home?region=us-east-2#/welcome" target="_blank">Elastic Beanstalk</a>
2. Click `Create application`
    1. Configure environment
        1. Environment tier: **Web server environment**
        2. Application information
            1. Application name: `springblog` (name of your capstone project)
        3. Environment information
            1. Environment name: **Springblog-env** (should auto-poplate)
            2. Domain: **leave blank**
            3. Environment description: **leave blank**
        4. Platform
            1. Platform type: **Managed platform**
            2. Platform: **Java**
            3. Platform branch: **Corretto 17 running on 64bit Amazon Linux 2023**
            4. Platform version: **4.0.0 (Recommended)**
        5. Application code: 
            1. **Upload your code**
            2. Version label: **v1**
            3. Source code origin: **Local file**
            4. Choose file
                1. Select the JAR file that was generated when you ran `mvn clean package` in your project terminal.
                > By using the `mvn clean package` command, Spring will clean out the target folder, and repackage your application into a JAR file. This will allow us to deploy our application without having to configure any environment variables in production, because our `application.properties` file is included, and will handle all environment variables associated with our project.
        6. Presets
            1. Configuration presets: **Single instance (free tier eligible)**
        7. Click Next!
    2. Configure service access
        1. Service role: **Use an existing service role**
        2. Existing service roles: **ebs-role-manager** (the IAM role we created)
        3. EC2 key pair: **codeup-aws** (the key pair we created)
        4. EC2 instance profile: **ebs-role-manager**
        5. Click Next!
    3. Set up networking, database, and tags
    4. Next!
    5. Configure instance traffic and scaling
        1. Instances
            1. Skip all settings here
        2. Capacity
            1. Auto scaling group
                1. Environment type: **Load balanced**
                2. All other default settings will suffice.
        3. Load Balancer Type
            1. **Application load balancer**
                2. **Dedicated**
        4. Listeners
            1. Add listener
                1. Listener port: **443**
                2. Listener protocol: **HTTPS**
                3. SSL Certificate: **select the cert you created**
                4. Click Save!
        5. Processes: **skip**
        6. Rules: **skip**
        7. Next!
    6. Configure updates, monitoring, and logging - optional
        1. Next!
    7. Review
        1. SUBMIT!

Once you have completed the steps above, your environment will begin to launch. Pay attention to the Events log for more details of what is being created and managed. Once your environment is created, navigate to the next step to create an alias record for our domain name in Route 53 so that we can route our EBS environment traffic to our domain name!

## Directing HTTP traffic to our domain

1. Navigate to <a href="https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/route53/v2/home#Home" target="_blank">Amazon Route 53</a>
2. Click on the hosted zone you created, it should be named after the domain you purchased.
3. Click `Create record`
    1. Record name: **leave blank**
    2. Record type: **A - routes traffic to an IPv4 address and some AWS resources**
    3. Toggle the `Alias` button
    4. Route traffic to:
        1. Endpoint: **Alias to Elastic Beanstalk environment**
        2. Region: **US East (Ohio)**
        3. Environment: **the environment we just created**
    5. Click Create records!


Once you have created the record, you should now be able to visit your application at your purchased domain name (`https://example.com`)!

## [<< Previous Step](3.ssl-certification.md)