# Accessing the Server

In review, we have launched our Amazon EC2 instance and pointed our domain to the instance as well. Therefore, when a user visits that particular domain, they will be pointed to your server. In this section, we will learn how to access our new server using the SSH key we created in the launching process of our instance.

1. Open a terminal and move the `codeup-aws.pem` file to your `.ssh/` directory.
    > It is common practice to have all SSH keys stored in the hidden `.ssh` folder.
    - `mv Downloads/codeup-aws.pem .ssh`
2. Next, we need to change the permissions of this file so that we can protect it against accidental overwriting, removing, renaming, or moving the file.
    - `chmod 400 .ssh/codeup-aws.pem`
    > This only needs to be run once, after the file has been created and moved to the `.ssh` directory. If you deleted your key, or need to create a new one, this command will be needed once again.
3. Next, we will need to SSH into our server by using the following command from our root directory of ~ in the terminal.
    - `ssh -i .ssh/codeup-aws.pem ubuntu@EC2_IP_ADDRESS`
    > This command allows us to securely login to our server using the key pair we created when setting up our EC2 instance.

Upon successful login, you should notice that your terminal no longer reads the name of your machine, but the ubuntu server instead. Now we can begin setting up our server and git, so that we can clone our project to the server.

> ### Further Reading:
> - [What is SSH?](https://www.techtarget.com/searchsecurity/definition/Secure-Shell#:~:text=SSH%2C%20also%20known%20as%20Secure,that%20implement%20the%20SSH%20protocol.)
> - [Linux chmod command](https://www.computerhope.com/unix/uchmod.htm)

<br>
<br>
<br>

## [<< Previous Step](3.dns.md) | [Next Step >>](5.ec2-to-github.md)