# Building the Project w/ `pm2`

In review, we have now set up our instance, connected our domain, logged into the server, cloned our project from git, and set up our `application.properties` file. This document will provide you with instructions on how to build the project, and use pm2 to manage our application.

1. First, let's create a shell script for pm2 to use to run our application. Assuming you are logged into the server, `cd` into the root of your project, and run the following command to create a shell script.
    - `vi run_capstone.sh`
2. Press `i` to switch to `INSERT` mode, and enter the following command into the script:
    - `mvn package spring-boot:run`
3. Hit `ESC`, then `:wq` to write/save and quit the editor.
4. In order to make this script executable, we need to use the following command from the root of our project:
    - `chmod +x ./run_capstone.sh`
5. We can now build and run our application by running the following command from the root of our project:
    - `pm2 start ./run_capstone.sh`
    > pm2 will now manage our application in the background, meaning that if we close the terminal, the application will still be running!
6. Lastly, we can setup pm2 so that when our server restarts for any reason, our application will automatically be launched as well. We can do so by running one of pm2's built in commands:
    - `pm2 startup`
    > After running the command, pm2 will return a command for you to run, and will configure the automatic start up for you.
7. Copy/paste and run the command that pm2 generates, then run the following command to save the configuration:
    - `pm2 save`

> In order to see the logs of your application, you can use the following command:
> - `pm2 log`
>
> This command will display the logs of your application, including errors.

Your application has now been deployed! You can now visit your web application by visiting the domain URL you bought:
- `http://domain-name.xyz:8080`

<!-- Need Explanation of why we need :8080 at the end. DocRob said something about needing a load balancer..? -->
We are not quite finished yet! the last step to complete our deployment will be to add an SSL certificate so that we have a secure site (`http` --> `https`).

## [<< Previous Step](6.application-properties.md) | [Next Step >>](8.ssl-cert.md)