# Nginx, SSL & LetsEncrypt

In order to add an SSL certificate and secure our site, we'll need to install `nginx` and `LetsEncrypt`

1. In the root of your server (`ubuntu@IP_ADDRESS ~`), install nginx by running the following command:
    - `sudo apt install nginx -y`
2. Next, we'll install `LetsEncrypt` using `snapd` and `Certbot` by running the following commands:
    1. `sudo apt install snapd`
    2. `sudo snap install core; sudo snape refresh core;`
    3. `sudo snap install --classic certbot`
    4. `sudo ln -s /snap/bin/certbot /usr/bin/cerbot`
    5. sudo certbot --nginx
    > In the terminal, you should see a file path to the Certificate that looks something like this:
    > - `etc/letsencrypt/live/DOMAIN-NAME/fullchain.pem`
    >
    > ***Copy the file path and store it in a notepad or some other text editor for later use!***
3. To configure our SSL Certificate with our Spring Boot application, we will need to create a `.p12` file. We can do so by running the following command ***in the root of our project***:
    > Before running the command, be sure to replace the `LETSENCRYPT_FILE_PATH` with the file path you stored in a separate editor, and replace the domain name with the domain you purchased (does not need to include `https` or `www`).
    - `sudo openssl pkcs12 -export -out ./springboot.p12 -in LETSENCRYPT_FILE_PATH -inkey /etc/letsencrypt/live/DOMAIN_NAME/privkey.pem -passout pass:password`
4. Almost done! Now we need to change the ownership of the `.p12` file so that the server can use it. You can do so by running the following command in the root of the project:
    - `sudo chown ubuntu:ubuntu springboot.p12`
5. Lastly, we need to add the following properties to our `application.properties` to properly configure the certificate.
    1. Edit your application.properties file using the `vi` editor. Run the following command from the root of your project.
        - `vi src/main/resources/application.properties`
        - Press `i` to switch to `INSERT` mode, and copy/past the following properties.
        ```
        server.ssl.key-store=springboot.p12
        server.ssl.key-store-password=password
        server.ssl.key-store-type=pkcs12
        ```
        - Hit `ESC`, then `:wq` to write/save and quit the editor.
6. Since we have modified our application, we can now restart our application by running the following `pm2` command:
    - `pm2 reload all`
    > The command above, `pm2 reload all`, will restart/rebuild your application, and continue to run the application in the background. It is recommended to look at the logs after every restart.
    > - `pm2 log`

7. Now that you have successfully deployed your application to production, you can continue working on your local repository, and continue working on your application. If you are wanting to pull changes and deploy again, [click here for more instructions](../update-docs/update-server.md).

## [<< Previous Step](7.step-seven.md)